.TH SRMCMD 8 "18 Juli 2009" "SRM access tool" "Version 0.0.1"
.SH NAME
srmcmd \- download/access your SRM PowerControl

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B srmcmd
[options] \fIpath\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B srmcmd
implemets the serial protocol for SRM's PowerControl V. It allows you to
download data from the PC attached to \fIpath\fR and adjust the most
important settings.

.SH OPTIONS
Options available for the
.B srmcmd
command:
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Delete data on PC. Well, actually just mark it as deleted. You're still
able to get it with --get=all.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-get\fR[=all]
download newly recorded data from PC. If \fIall\fR is specified, all data
is retrieved including what was "deleted" before. By default data is
written to stdout as tab-seperated list.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
A brief message.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-int\fR=\fIrecint\fR
Set recording interval. Interval is specified *10. so "10" means 1 sec.
Supported values: 1 to 9 and 10 to 150 in steps of 10.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR
Show name stored on the PC.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-read\fR
instead of accessing the PC, the specified file is read. By default data
is written to stdout as with --get. Both SRM6 and SRM7 formats are
supported.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR
Set the PCs time to the current system time.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Increase verbosity.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-write\fR=\fIdestination\fR
Write data retrieved from PC (or with --read from file) to the specified
destination file. Files are written using the SRM7 format.

.SH EXAMPLES
Show name configured in PC:

 srmcmd -n /dev/ttyUSB0

Download data to out.srm, delete data on PC, adjust clock and set recint
to 1sec:

 srmcmd -g -t -r 10 -w out.srm /dev/ttyUSB0

.SH "SEE ALSO"
This is just a very simplistic frontend for the lib. Please check the
source distribution for details.

.SH BUGS
Yes. For sure. Just keep in mind, that protocoll and file formats are
reverse engineered...

.SH AUTHORS
Rainer Clasen
